feat(list): initial design guidance (#13)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1016-list-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-16
updated: 2024-10-21
---

# List Design Guidance

> [List](https://clarity.design/documentation/list) show vertical groups of items and can be nested to show hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [list](https://clarity.design/documentation/list) displays vertical groups of items and can be nested to represent hierarchical relationships, allowing for organized presentation of information.
```

## Guidance

> There are three types of lists: `unordered`, `ordered`, and `unstyled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three types of lists: unordered, ordered, and unstyled. Each type serves a different purpose in organizing and presenting information.
```

### List Usage

> - **Must** use a list to group related items and organize them vertically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use a list to group related items and organize them vertically for clarity and easy navigation.
```

- **Must** use an `unordered` list when the order does not matter.

> - **Must** use an `ordered` list when you need to convey a priority, hierarchy, or sequence between list items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use an ordered list when conveying priority, hierarchy, or sequence among list items. This helps users understand the relationship and importance of each item in the context.
```

> - **Must** use an `unstyled` list when styling is unnecessary to improve comprehension or hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use an unstyled list when styling is unnecessary, as it allows for a clean presentation of information without adding visual distractions, improving comprehension and clarity.
```

> - Lists can be nested, different types of lists can be mixed within nested groupings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lists can be nested, allowing different types of lists to be mixed within nested groupings. This enables a more complex hierarchy and organization of information, helping users to better understand relationships between items.
```
